The number of college courses that they had to have
before they were accepted into vet school
increased at a very rapid rate. Did this mean that
while you were on the student selections
committee, it appeared that the students were
improving, or did it seem to have any effect at all?
The students who were selected as a rule were the
ones who had more to show. They had more courses.
Naturally, you're going to take someone who has
more to offer to you. If he has a degree, so much the
better. And if his work has been good work,
excellent work, in the four years well that's
that's much more valuable than just a two-year
student much more valuable if you've had four
years of good grades instead of two years unless
this person is a very brilliant person with two
years and he is he has made almost a four point grade
point ratio in the two years And he comes
well-qualified, well-recommended, and you talk
to instructors he's had on the campus or wherever
he went, and they have recommended him very
highly. Well, you place a person like that up
against a four-year person, if the four-year
person, say, had maybe B's or C's in his chemistry
or biology or something like that. I see. Yeah,
because to me, unless they made good in their
science courses, unless they were strong in
science and mathematics, I didn't want them. I
see. Chemistry. Is that how your colleagues on the
committee felt? They all felt the same way about
it. Now, Dr. Davis liked to use the computer. I
don't know why. I don't understand all I know about
a computer anyway. Well, Dick got with the people
over in the computer area, and they devised a
method. You'd have to get him to tell you. I
wouldn't know. But anyway, we had reams and reams
of material from the computer. And Dick would
evaluate them, every angle that he could think of,
and put it through the computer and come out with a
list. a computerized list. Well, usually the
thing would tally pretty well with what we had
selected. Anyway, yeah. Yeah. But we used that to
sort of substantiate if we had to have any
argument. So I think it worked out very nicely. It
worked out very nicely. There were some students
who Well, we've had some very good students who
were not very proficient in English. And they made
a very poor showing on interview. Their language
was horrible. And they just fell completely out
there. I remember one fellow.
He was worse than some of our athletes with, you
know, He couldn't say anything but you know.
Otherwise his grades were good. He didn't get in.
He wore us out with you know, you know, you know. He
couldn't say a word, a phrase or maybe a sentence
without you knows. I just watched an interview the
other night and I heard exactly that same thing.
Yes, I did too. with a basketball player. And I
thought, this is a shame. You know where they get
it? I don't know where they get it, but they sure do
say it. This young man began to work there in the
College of Veterinary Medicine in the
photographic lab. And I did quite a bit of work down
there preparing my neurology notebook, which I
want to show
you. We had to get photographic. equipment to do
this. Back then when we started out in anatomy, you
didn't have any photographic equipment. You
begin with the gross brain here. That's an old
cow's brain. She's been knocked in the head.
There's blood all over the lower part of her brain
here in the olfactory area, but here's a side view
and so on. Well, we went, here's a top, sagittal
section, and then you start with the spinal cord,
and go on up, go on up here, motor and UTI. Oh, those
are excellent. And on through. Now, who put this
book together? I did. Oh, really? That's an
outstanding. I did all the photography. I didn't
know you were an expert at that. See, you go clear on
through the brain stem. Just section, section,
section. You're up in the medulla oblongata now.
Here's the inferior olive pyramidal tracts. So
on. Just clear on up. Just section by section. See?
Clear on through the whole brain stem. Here the
oculomotor nerves there. Third nucleus in here.
And so on. Clear on through it. And you leave a page
in here for the student to make a note. Now, we had
class sets. And these sections tallied with their
class sets. I did the sectioning. Brain stem,
these are big sections, about like eight. And
you've got to have a good sharp knife and know what
you're doing. And Mrs. Craig, my technician, did
the staining. It's a special Kluver stain. where
the myelin sheath of your nerve fiber stains
black, see? There's fiber tracks. These are
nuclei, all these light areas, substantia nigra
here, and so on. And the student then, I would
project the slide on the screen and point out
everything to him. And he is sitting there with his
microscope, and he has this section in his set. And
he follows. Excellent idea. Yeah. Follows right
along. He can take his notes right here. He can say
number one is the medial geniculate body. He can
put a one here. Great idea. And he's got it to study.
And then when he's through, here we go. We're
getting on up in the brain stem now.
Oh, I think that there's maybe one more. But
anyhow,
and they say, well, you didn't write anything.
Well, I wrote a dissertation. I did a
dissertation, and I studied 21,000 sections of
turkey brain and seven brains that I had
dissected. And I cut, sectioned, and stained, and
did the whole work. You never did turn out much in
the way of papers writing. What time did I have to
write or carry on research? Who sharpened all the
microtome knives? I was the only one who ever
learned how to sharpen a microtome knife. And the
day I retired, I sharpened some knives for Miss
Craig so she'd have some good sharp knives to go
with. Well, that's a great little booklet. That's
tremendous. So you do all of your photography. You
do everything. But you took those pictures? I took
everything. I did all the sectioning. What kind of
camera did you use? We had a micro camera. The
lenses would enable you to put a 3x2 slide on there
with a section. And you can get the whole thing with
it. You have a view screen up here. You get it in
focus. Then you slide your cassette in here with
your film and you take the picture. You have your
lamps and everything. But anyhow,
that's the way it was. There's a question I was
interested in. Instead of having two or three men
in the department to handle about as many students
as they have now, while you have 10 or 12.
I should have had that during the speed-up program
and during the time Dr. Dunn was out when I was
bacteriology and pathology, post-mortem and
everything. There's something I was interested
in, and that is In the 1960s, we had applicants of
about 140 or 150 a year, but now we have like 600
people applying to get into med school, or vet
school here. What a tremendous increase, and I was
wondering what your opinion of why. Well, we had
those back in the 60s. We had four, five, 600
applicants. Oh, why has it become so popular? I
couldn't tell you. I really don't know. I don't
know. I guess the big thing is you can make money,
and that seems to be what the student wants now,
something he can make money with and be his own
boss.
I would venture to say that in human medicine, it's
the same way. In law, it's the same way. In
dentistry. They are out for what they can make.
They want to be rich.
They want to be independent.
Did you want that when you were a student? I wanted a
living. See, I'm a depression person. And I was
thankful to get a job that paid me $1,500 on a nine
month basis. I was also very thankful to get a
graduate assistantship at $45 a month because
otherwise I couldn't have gone.
No way. The first woman was admitted here in vet
school in 1963, and now they comprise about
one-third, one-third of the student body. 37 and
Dr. Burns' little book. Do you have one of Dr.
Burns' history? Yeah. Well, he has a tabulation
there. Were you on this, you were on this Elections
Committee? Yeah, Ms. Oliphant came, yes. We were
very happy with her. What transpired? She came
very well, recommended by one of the
veterinarians she'd worked for down there in the
valley, and she was A little wrangler herself.
This old boy said, whenever I have a mean horse to
break, I get her to break it. Really? Yeah. What's
her name? What's her name? Oliphant. Her name was
Oliphant. Yeah. She married an old boy. I've
forgotten. Lee, I believe, was his name. And he was
taking veterinary medicine, too. Anyway, she was
all right. She was a good student. She carried her
into the stick. I don't believe we've had very many
girls who have fallen down. They've all done all
right. Why did we change from an all-male school to
allowing women? Well, the women wanted in
veterinary medicine. The pet angle especially
practiced with cats and dogs, small animals. That
appealed to them. I guess their motherly
instincts. It worked out all right, as far as I
know. Is there any pressure from President Rutter
or any other administrator? No. I don't recall any
pressure. This Miss Oliphant came, she was
admitted on the basis of graduate student.
Veterinary medicine was considered then more of a
graduate course. Well, I still think it is. I think
it's actually veterinary medicine is graduate
school, as far as I'm concerned. Just like in
Galveston, old Dr. Sinclair said to us, you're in
graduate school. Well, I feel the same way about
veterinary medicine. It's graduate school. Do
you think there was much resistance with your
colleagues about having ? I couldn't see any
resistance in veterinary medicine to admission
of women. What was the quality of the women who
applied back in the early 1960s compared to the
men? Well, women got in and those we took were as
well qualified as the men.
Because they were people or women who had had or
they had had contact with animal life for a long
time, and they were well motivated. This is what
they wanted, and that's all they wanted.
Was there a direct impact after you let women in? I
mean, did you change the curriculum? Were there
any changes because of that? No, no. No, unless
they work, unless they study hard. No, they're not
going to make it.
Another thing concerning the so-called
minorities, another thing that interests me, not
only women, but throughout the years. We've had
two blacks that I know of up to the time. Why don't
they apply? I don't know. I don't know why. We had
one black who failed in his anatomy.
He went on to Meharry Medical College and
graduated as an MD.
We had another black from Galveston, Texas, his
mother This is in the 1960s? Yeah, his mother was a
maid in a motel.
This old boy came out of the Marine Corps. He had
been a corporal. I think Rank was a corporal in the
Marine Corps. He came to A&M and took veterinary
medicine. He had a hard time. But that old boy was
trying. He was struggling. And I think that...
Well, I'm sure that he had to repeat some courses.
But he finally made it, and he's practicing
veterinary medicine in California now. He was a
swell fella. Yeah, great big guy. Well built, like
little Abner. But he made it. He had trouble, but he
made it. He just bit it off and didn't spit it out. He
stayed with it. You had to admire that rascal.
Were there very many who applied when you were on
the selections committee? No. A strange thing. I
don't know why. I guess they found out that it was so
difficult, I suppose. But yet there are many of
them in human medicine. But veterinary medicine
somehow or other just doesn't appeal. And I don't
know why it is. It would seem to me that if a person is
reared on a farm, as many of them were, that they
would be interested in veterinary medicine, in
animals. But that's not the case.
We would like to have some real good students in the
minorities. It's the same way with the
Spanish-Americans. We've had a few. Most of them
we've had have been real good students.
I don't know, but maybe a handful of Latin
Americans. But they've been good students. In
fact, I think we have one out there now. Out of the
veterinary corps, he became a colonel.
What's his name? Trevino, Trevino, he finally
got, he has a PhD in pathology, and so on. He's on the
staff now? Yeah, he's retired from the veterinary
corps, he's on the staff now, yeah. Oh, good for
him. But a good student, excellent. Now as far as
research is concerned at Texas A&M, I was
wondering what you considered to be the strengths
and the weaknesses of the, research in the vet
school?
Well, actually in anatomy, what research we did
was
laughable. Well, actually we didn't do very much.
It was more of a teaching department. It was more of
a teaching department as long as I was with it. But
they are doing research now. We were beginning
before I left. But up to that time, I think you could
say we were building. Yeah. What were the great
research institutions by the time you left in the
early 1970s?
In the A&M? No, no. What were the great in the
country?
Well, you'd have to put it down to medical schools
mostly. I don't think veterinary schools were
doing very much. I don't recall. Cornell,
probably, and Michigan State, Iowa State, to me,
were outstanding.
Or maybe Minnesota. Put Minnesota in there. But
not Texas A&M. This is a more recent development.
You see, up to as long as we had a division of
veterinary science. in the experiment station.
All of the research work was done there. In fact,
that's all they did, was all they were supposed to
do. They did the research. We did the teaching. And
this went on up to as long as Dr. Schmidt was there in
veterinary research. Dr. Turk, who was
parasitology head for so long, he started out.
been there, science, Dr. Schmidt, and so on. Well,
that's the way it was, and up until the time that
D.W. Williams came on as vice president, and was he
president? D.W. Or just acting. Anyhow, he
started the breakdown of the research in one area
and teaching in the other. He wanted it mixed up. He
was the one who, as far as I know, began breaking it
down so that we'd have research and teaching.
I think it's come quite a ways. I know they have
maybe a $300,000 research program in anatomy now.
In monkeys? Well,
we were beginning. I know we were beginning to make
brain stem sections and spinal cord sections of
baboons and different types of monkeys so that we
would be prepared if we needed to study anything in
the central nervous system, we'd have sections of
central nervous system for comparison to any
pathology or anatomical changes.
Well, I'm well pleased that they have an
opportunity, and I'm pleased, too, that we have
sufficient faculty. Right, to carry on. When you
had two or three men in your teaching, good
heavens. No, nine different courses, don't
forget it. Impossible. Now, the archives put me up
to this question, and I don't know anything about
this group, but they said I should ask you because
you might. And that is, during the 1950s, I guess,
there was a group called the True Texans, the
Tonqua tribe? The Tonqua tribe. Can you tell me
about them? I don't know anything about these
people. Well, Dr. Morgan called me one day and
asked me if I wouldn't be on a committee to try some
of these students who were found out to be
Tawankawa tribes. He said, we need some good
Aggies. Well,
I said, yes, I don't mind being on the committee. So
I was. Penberthy was chairman.
They had put a,
what would you call him? A person had joined the TTs
and was making their meetings. And he got a hold of
the little black book, the registry. where
they're supposed to sign their names in blood and
all that. And you'd be surprised that the names
were read out at the meeting, people who belonged
to the TTs. Well, as a military school, we were not
supposed to have any fraternities, secret
societies. Felborden? No, no. But evidently they
had two. the Tawankawa tribes and the Swastikas.
Yeah. So. This is after the Second World War, the
Swastikas? Yeah. And then before the war, this
goes way back. I know way back in the 20s, they still
had the Tawankawa tribe and the Swastikas. It was
named long before Hitler. I don't know whether
they kept the Swastikas after Hitler came on the
line. But the TTs were here. In fact, I suppose the
TTs have been around since A&M began. I have an old
captain's chair over here that came out of the old
chemistry lecture room. A picture was taken in
1904. And I want to show you something that's
carved on the arm. You're talking about the TTs?
We're lucky here.
You see a TT there? That's their sign. That's their
brand. That's their brand. It's Texas Tech now,
but the Toronto tribe there. And that old chair
came from the Kim lecture room. And I have a picture
that was taken in 1940. These old captain's chairs
in there. It was in the old amphitheater. in the old
chemistry building that stood where the library,
the Cushing Library was built.
What was their function, or what was their
purpose? Well, when they read off the list of
names, I found out that an old B Troop cavalry, my
captain was a T.T. His top kick was a TT. The colonel
of the cadet corps was a TT. And I don't know how many
colonels of the cadet corps that were read off
through the years were TTs.
And evidently, it was playing a part in military
appointments.
I know I had one. When I was a freshman, there was a
senior who played football. He led it. But he told
me, he said, Fish, I want to tell you something.
You're going to be around here several more years.
But unless you belong to a secret fraternity, an
organization like that, you're not going to
amount to anything. He said, I don't belong. But I
had an awful time making a letter. Said the guys who
were fraternity men made letters. But I had an
awful time.
That old boy is dead now, too. Well, what did the TTs
believe in?
Well, to me, it was more of a social organization.
They had dances and such as that and parties off
campus. So. Had to be wealthy, didn't it? Well,
they had to be socialites in a way. They had to. Why
did they name themselves the True Texans? I don't
know. I don't know where the name Tawanka was. It
wasn't True Texans. It was Tawanka with tribe. Oh.
So True Texans is not the name. Well, one of the
members of that committee was a TT and he was common
of the cadet he was common of cadets at A&M old Joe
Davis he went he went from here to uh Stephenville
to Tarleton
in general then it was a social organization or a
social club and And in fact,
from the reading off of the names, I don't know
what's ever become of the little black book, but
the chairman of the board of directors of Texas A&M
College's name was read off. And at that time, he
was chairman of the board.
Did you ever join? No, sir. Why not? I wasn't a
socialite. I didn't have money.
Oh, and I didn't intend to graduate from A&M
either. I was going to take my pre-med and go on,
which I did, but I came back. But I will say this for
the TTs.
They were made up of good men. And when I went back,
the dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine at
that time was a his name was read off too out of the
little black book and was this just for students or
was it for it was just for students it was just for
students and then many of these people had aspired
on yeah i don't know where the little black book
went as far as i'm concerned why the tt was made up of
damn good men because i didn't know that it wasn't a
name it was read off it wasn't an outstanding
personality And all I can say is hooray for the TTs.
Does it still exist today? They were supposed to
break up that year. What year was that? Disband.
Oh, I don't know when Dr. Morgan was president back
in there in the 60s. It wasn't Bill Armistead was
dean. It was... Oh, don't you have a... Well, let's
see. Yeah, I can find out when that was, yeah.
Mm-hmm.
Oh, I don't know. They said yes. Why did they
investigate?